README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/pglass/tox-pip-version.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/pglass/tox-pip-version)
![](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/tox-pip-version.svg)
![](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/tox-pip-version.svg)

Overview
--------

This is a tox plugin that preinstalls a specific version of pip in each tox
environment.

```bash
pip install tox-pip-version
```

This works around the default behavior of tox/virtualenv that always installs
the latest version pip. It is an improvment over the `VIRTUALENV_NO_DOWNLOAD=1`
option that does not install the latest version, but could result in usage of
an outdated version of pip.

*Recommendation*: Do not pin the pip version long term. You get more stable
repeatable builds, but at the cost of using an outdated (possibly vulnerable)
package. This should be used as a temporary fix for breakages in upstream pip,
or in conjunction with a regular process to update the version pin.

*Note*: This relies on an [unstable tox plugin interface](
https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/plugins.html#tox.hookspecs.tox_testenv_create).
You may experience breakage with new tox versions. If you do, please feel
free to [report the issue](https://github.com/pglass/tox-pip-version/issues/new)
on Github.

### Usage

Install the package and include `pip_version` in your tox.ini

```tox
[testenv]
pip_version = 19.0.1
```

Or, set the `TOX_PIP_VERSION` environment variable,

```bash
export TOX_PIP_VERSION=18.1
tox
```

The plugin will install that specific pip into the tox-created virtualenv,
just after tox creates the virtualenv, but before dependencies are installed.

The `pip_version` within tox.ini, if present, is always used over the
environment variable.

If neither `pip_version` or `TOX_PIP_VERSION` is present, the plugin does
nothing.


### Tests

Use `make test` to run the tests, which includes linting and functional tests.

Each of the `tests/*` directories is a "feature" that needs testing. Each
feature sub-directory contains a tox.ini file that sets pip version in a
particular way, and then uses a tox command to check the correct pip version
was installed.

Commit message:

Support version ranges
- Update the README with the new feature
- Rewrite check-pip-version.sh in python, to support checking a version
(19.0) is contained within a version set ('!=19.1,>18.0'). This has a
dependency on `packaging` which must be installed in each tox env,
unfortunately.
- Add `tests/test-version-specifiers/` to test the new version ranges

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/pglass/tox-pip-version.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/pglass/tox-pip-version)
![](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/tox-pip-version.svg)
![](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/tox-pip-version.svg)

Overview
--------

This is a tox plugin that preinstalls a specific version of pip in each tox
environment.

```bash
pip install tox-pip-version
```

This works around the default behavior of tox/virtualenv that always installs
the latest version pip. It is an improvment over the `VIRTUALENV_NO_DOWNLOAD=1`
option that does not install the latest version, but could result in usage of
an outdated version of pip.

*Recommendation*: Do not pin the pip version long term. You get more stable
repeatable builds, but at the cost of using an outdated (possibly vulnerable)
package. This should be used as a temporary fix for breakages in upstream pip,
or in conjunction with a regular process to update the version pin.

*Note*: This relies on an [unstable tox plugin interface](
https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/plugins.html#tox.hookspecs.tox_testenv_create).
You may experience breakage with new tox versions. If you do, please feel
free to [report the issue](https://github.com/pglass/tox-pip-version/issues/new)
on Github.

### Usage

Install the package and include `pip_version` in your tox.ini

```tox
[testenv]
pip_version = 19.0.1
```

Or, set the `TOX_PIP_VERSION` environment variable,

```bash
export TOX_PIP_VERSION=18.1
tox
```

The plugin will install that version of pip into the tox-created virtualenv,
just after tox creates the virtualenv, but before dependencies are installed.

The `pip_version` within tox.ini, if present, is always used over the
environment variable.

If neither `pip_version` or `TOX_PIP_VERSION` is present, the plugin does
nothing.

### Version Sets

Version sets (or ranges) are supported, enabling installation of a version of
pip matching a set of specifiers. There are three basic formats:

- A plain version string, like `pip_version = 19.0`, which installs that exact
  version.
- A version with specifiers, like `pip_version = >=19.0`, which installs any
  version matching the specifier set.
- A version with specifiers prefixed with "pip", like
  `pip_version = pip>=19.0` (equivalent to the above)

Here are some more examples,

- `pip_version = pip`: equivalent to `pip install pip` (should install latest)
- `pip_version = 18.0`: equivalent to `pip install pip==18.0`
- `pip_version = >=18.0`: equivalent to `pip install pip>=18.0`
- `pip_version = pip>=18.0`: equivalent to `pip install pip>=18.0`
- `pip_version = !=18.0,>=10.0`: equivalent to `pip install pip!=18.0,>=10.0`
- `pip_version = pip!=18.0,>=10.0`: equivalent to `pip install pip!=18.0,>=10.0`

### Tests

Use `make test` to run the tests, which includes linting and functional tests.

Each of the `tests/*` directories is a "feature" that needs testing. Each
feature sub-directory contains a tox.ini file that sets pip version in a
particular way, and then uses a tox command to check the correct pip version
was installed.
